Add AI.md with updated text from PR14052 (#14383)
ocaml/ocaml: AI.md

## Guidelines relevant to AI-assisted contributions

Tools using AI are increasingly used to produce text and code.  However ensuring
the quality of AI-assisted output can be difficult, and contributors must be

> willing to adapt their workflows accordingly.  This section documents our

Reviewer: Possibly soften the language?
```suggestion
the quality of AI-assisted output can be difficult, and we ask contributors to
be willing to adapt their workflows accordingly.  This section documents our
```

Reviewer 2: why? 

> contributors must be willing to adapt their workflows accordingly

is clear and not insulting and is less vulnerable to rule lawyering

note: I am not a native speaker - and at least for me "we ask" "consider that" "maybe" "it is nice but maybe" used in meaning of "must" or "it is absolutely mandatory and non-negotiable" always was confusing a bit to me

Author: Agreed with @dra27

expectations.  The guidelines also apply, or have a direct counterpart, with
entirely human-produced content.

1. We strive to evaluate proposed contributions based on their merit,
   not their authors -- whether humans or programs.

2. We ask that you have either written, or read and reviewed yourself,
   every part of your contribution.  You are responsible for its quality.
   (It is strongly recommended that you read a proposed contribution in full
   even if you wrote all of it.)

3. Reviewing AI-produced code can be more difficult than reviewing
   human-written code and may require a different approach.
   If a significant portion of your code, PR description, review comments or
   messages on this repository have been entirely or almost-entirely
   authored by an automated tool, we ask that you disclose that such work

>    was produced by automation rather than yourself.  Please mention which tool

Reviewer 3: Delete the last part of this sentence, ending with "... we ask that you disclose this."

   was used and for what. (For example, "The testsuite additions were mostly
   generated by Copilot.", or "This PR description was generated by ChatGPT from

>    a short summary.")  You should be adding acknowledgements anyway in the case

Reviewer 3: "You should have an acknowledgement anyway if some part of your work came from another human contributor."

>    a short summary.")  You should be adding acknowledgements anyway in the case

Reviewer 4: Copying my comment from https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml/pull/14052#discussion_r2565284190:

> I don't think we want PR descriptions that are generated by ChatGPT from short summaries. Instead, people submitting PRs should send the short summaries, and reviewers who want ChatGPT-generated descriptions can submit the summaries to ChatGPT themselves.

>    a short summary.")  You should be adding acknowledgements anyway in the case

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   a PR code and reviewed for mistakes.")  You should be adding acknowledgements anyway in the case
```

Reviewer 2: that would be still highly dubious to me, but at least it takes long text and condenses it to short one - in practise it does not work well, but in theory at least can be useful

using AI-get to take short description and expand it to pages of corpospeak is utterly pointless and not useful in any case, even with faultless superhuman AI

   that part of your work came from another human contributor.

4. The following are never acceptable as contributions to OCaml: low-effort

>    productions of code changes that submitters do not understand themselves;

Reviewer 3: s/productions of//

Reviewer: FWIW, I'm not sure we need to spell this out? Someone opening a PR falling foul of this won't have read the policy and we don't need the policy to summarily close it?

Reviewer 5: Should we clarify what a proper effort means, AI-wise? 

I suggest spelling it out, e.g.

- Have your model read `AGENTS.md` at the root of the repo before starting each session.
- Pick the best model for the job, e.g. ChatGPT is good for reviewing and planning and Claude Sonnet for writing the code. 
- Have a different AI review your AI contribution, e.g. ask ChatGPT review Claude Sonnet.
- Be sure to run the the whole compiler suite before submitting your PR and ask AI to create tests for any new features added, following the design of the existing OCaml test suite.

Any guidelines like no emojis and short commit descriptions (1 line, plus a short paragraph no wider than 70 characters) can go into `AGENTS.md` at the root of the repo.

   plagiarised works; hallucinated reports of security issues; or experiments
   involving automated interactions with human contributors without explicitly
   obtaining their consent beforehand.

> 5. We believe the current position of authors of AI-assisted programming tools

Reviewer 3: I think I'd change the order of the sentences here; stating the policy first and concluding with the sentence about authors of AI tools: "If your contribution .... Contributors will still need .... We believe that ...."

Reviewer: I also wonder if this should be the second point, because it absolutely applies to any large contribution, whether authored solely by human(s) or LLM.

   is that it is their users' responsibility to ensure the produced output does
   not violate copyright or licensing terms.  If your contribution includes
   substantial AI-produced parts, you must check whether they are in fact

>    derivative works of an existing project, and make any necessary

Reviewer 4: Copying my comment from https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml/pull/14052#discussion_r2565290229:

> Checking whether AI-produced parts of a contribution are derivative works is an impossible task, and we shouldn't ask contributors to perform it. Instead, we should say that if they do not have absolute confidence about the provenance of the contribution then they should not submit the PR.

   adjustments.  Contributors will still need to sign the OCaml CLA for
   any significant contribution.

6. Please be mindful that reviewer time is a scarce resource. Contributions

>    (whether human- or tool-authored) should strive to preserve it.

Reviewer 3: s/preserve/conserve/
